Touhou Piano Library is a collection of sheet music from touhou piano arrangements. They are either provided by the arranger or transcribed by a third party, and they might be in the form of pdf, midi, or video. If it was midi or images, I could create a pdf out of them. However, if the only source of music score is inside a video, I don't want to transcribe everything again or to take screenshots (they are blurry). Instead, if you are interested in such works (which are rare in this site), you could ask the arranger for the sheet or make one yourself. Arrangements without a score will not be uploaded since there are too many of them and transcribing is not an easy task.


A guide on seeking touhou arrangements

Although I will continue uploading arrangements, this collection is not meant to be complete. Collecting every work that I've ever encountered is useless because users, especially beginners, will be overwhelmed. I must filter out arrangements that are "bad" or for other reasons. This is very biased, but I have no other options. There are also themes I'm not familiar with, thus cannot choose good arrangements of them.

If you found that your favorite theme is not listed here, just search for them. YouTube is a good place to start. Type "[theme title] piano" in the search box and there should be plenty. You may also search in Japanese "[theme title] ピアノ", where touhou wiki provides translations.

Another option is to visit other sheet music libraries, such as kkcwkoh's Illusionary Score (http://illusionaryscore.web.fc2.com) and Kijiriki's transcriptions (http://kijiriki.iza-yoi.net/file.html).

If you are interested in a specific artist, I've provided links to their homepages, where you will hopefully find a more complete exhibition of their works. 


Using a score vs. Playing by ear

Unless the arranger has strict rules on the performance of their music, which I haven't encountered, you are free to change anything when you play. Therefore, a range of practice are equally acceptable: directly follow the sheet music / change some parts / play your own version but extract some parts from another arrangement / merge multiple arrangements / make your own arrangement and practice it / just improvise. Just don't forget to credit the artist(s).

I sometimes hear people argue that following a score is wrong and playing by ear is superior. I admit that performing an original arrangement is impressive (more so if improvised), but beginners shouldn't be discouraged to use a score, for the fact that music composition is an advanced skill and requires special training (yes, it sucks that composition/improvisation is hardly taught in piano lessons). It's acceptable to even play those obviously improvised works as long as they are musically pleasing.


On the type of works

I categorize all works into two types: "arrange" and "transcription." Here, a "transcription" means a faithful reproduction of original theme on the piano, and an "arrange" implies deviation to some extent.

Note 1: Please differentiate these two types with "arranger" and "transcriber" in the description of each work. Normally, arranger is the person who creates the piano piece, and transcriber (if any) is the person who makes the sheet music for such piece. However, if a piece is marked as "transcription," it's still an arrangement from non-piano to piano.

Note 2: There is no clear border between "arrange" and "transcription." The categorization is subjective.


My standards on choosing arrangements for a theme

I just stated that I would only select certain works and ignore others. Instead of "personal taste," I decided to make it clear a little bit.

"Transcription" type works tend to be similar, so usually only one will remain. Sometimes there are two versions, one being easy and the other one hard. The way I judge them is:
First, check for content. Does it carry all the important voices in the original theme? Does it distort some parts of melody?
Second, check for musicality. Does the accompaniment fill the holes in the melody? Is there enough variation between passages? Is it pianistic?
Third, verify the technical difficulties. Are they necessary for expression? Is there an easier version that doesn't sacrifice much content or musicality?
The "musicality" part is indeed subjective, and I cannot explain more.

I think the "easy and hard" mentality is harmful when we talk about different arrangements of the same theme. Each theme naturally has its corresponding difficulty level (or a range) on the piano, and if someone (like DMBN) intentionally creates easy versions of hard themes, they are guaranteed bad. A suggestion for beginners: if you encounter huge difficulties, find some other music that are easy instead of sticking to a specific theme.

There aren't that many competitions among "arrange" type works. One basic restriction, though, is that the original theme should at least be recognizable. Then I would prefer those with human performances (not many out there considering we also need sheet music).


On difficulty

Nothing is more frustrating than practicing a piece for a long time but unable to perform it due to skill limits. That's why I attach a difficulty rating for each piece. I hope it serves as a reference for beginners. 

Difficulty is rated on a scale of 1-5, 1 being the easiest. Anything beyond 5 is marked as "?" because I'm too far below their level to properly assess them.

The rating is subjective and might be unconvincing. If you are doubtful, go straight into the most challenging part of a piece to determine whether you are at that level.

Note: I don't want to take the length of the work into consideration, as "long" isn't quite related to "difficult." As a result, the difficulty rating is not an indication of how long you'll need to practice.


On performances

I always try to include a human performance and will only link a midi scrolling video if there aren't any human ones. If the video shows the live performance, I will credit the piano player. If the video is basically audio only (usually happens when the music comes from an album), then I'll leave the "performer" blank for consistency. Technically speaking, I'm not 100% certain if an audio is from a human performance or not (it might be a very well-made midi or an edited recording to an unknown extent). If a real recording doesn't show its performer, you can assume it's the arranger who played it.


Disclaimer

All credits for the sheet music hosted on this site belongs to their respective arrangers and transcribers, as well as ZUN or other original composers.


Bloak
7/3/2022
